the medication almost killed my dad he's
a psychologist and even he wasn't aware
of how bad these medications are for
some people why why wasn't he aware this
is the single biggest news story in the
last 50 years of both psychiatry and
psychology
the specific symptom that dr. Jordan
Peterson is struggling with is called
akathisia akathisia is a symptom that
kills people because it is so hard to
endure it is so hard to live with that
they tend to commit suicide I'm now
going to show you a short clip of a
woman suffering from Agatha this
specific woman her family members have
discussed her case on the Internet this
specific woman did and her life in
suicide are you going you'll be okay I
was not born wise I was born ignorant
like everyone else I had to learn these
things through hard work however that
process of learning for me begins and
ends with sympathy I don't sympathize
with other people just to make myself
feel morally superior sympathy is an
analytical tool sympathy is part of
understanding the world and sympathy is
a crucial part of the process of
curiosity you get interested in why
other people are suffering what they're
suffering from what their problems are
how to solve them
sympathy leads you into learning about
many important phenomena in life and
this is one even though I myself have
never taken SSRI antidepressants I
myself
never taken benzodiazepines or any of
these drugs I nevertheless know that
this is a major important question our
society and it's an important question
specifically in the academic discipline
that dr. jordan peterson was supposedly
a master of quote directly quoting his
idiot diet guru daughter this was not a
case of psychological addiction
benzodiazepine physical dependence due
to the brain changes that can occur in a
matter of weeks can destroy lives
just imagine if dr. jordan peterson have
been an activist on this issue before it
destroyed his life imagine if he had any
sympathy for or interest in his own
patience whatsoever imagine if he had
any interest in what was happening in
the state of the art of his own field of
medical science and treatment nope so as
you guys might have heard jordan
peterson is back in the news in a big
way because he's in russia now with
brain damage he went to some kind of
shady russian medical facility russian
rehab where they put you in a medically
induced coma so that you don't have to
deal with the symptoms of withdrawal and
i guess that he awoke from that coma
with brain damage and this is to deal
with his addiction to i don't even know
what he was addicted to imagine if he
had any sympathy for or interest in his
own patience whatsoever imagine if he
had any interest in what was happening
in the state of the art of his own field
of medical science and treatment nope he
wanted to write books about lobsters and
why everyone should believe in jesus to
make society a better place he wanted to
rail against the use of gender-neutral
pronouns in english language she had
other priorities rather than dealing
with you know the reality of these
psychiatric drugs and their side-effects
even though that was his field that was
what he lectured on at university and
that was what he recommended his
patients do i've quoted him on that in
Prior videos in the past I've heard
depressed people who stopped
antidepressant said they never helped in
the first place what do you say to that
mr. Peterson
hey that that's certainly possible
the antidepressants don't necessarily
work for everyone my personal opinion is
that antidepressants work quite well for
many people whose lives are in decent
order so they have friends they have
family that love them they have a career
they're educated approximately to the
level of their intelligence he
recommended that all his patients get on
SSRI antidepressants it was a common
thing for him in his practice
he'd have to counsel them and convince
them to overcome their hesitancy their
reluctance to taking these drugs drugs
that have been debunked as not having a
positive effect and drugs that have been
proven to have really dangerous really
terrifying man what if you had diabetes
you're not gonna take your insulin it's
like you got stressed you blew out it
your weakest point that's what happens
when you get stressed if there's
something out there that might help you
it's like try it
for God's sake you'll know in a month
and you just stop if it doesn't work
especially especially for people whose
lives are together and who are depressed
antidepressants can be absolutely
miraculous so you know when you hear
about the clinical evidence in their
favor being iffy and that's partly
because the diagnosis of depression
isn't very well formulated it can be
made even worse by paradoxical reactions
that are difficult to diagnose the
medication almost killed my dad he's a
psychologist and even he wasn't aware of
how bad these medications are for some
people why why wasn't he aware this is
the single biggest news story in the
last 50 years of both psychiatry and
psychology why didn't he know why didn't
he care I mean the negative side effects
of benzodiazepines that's fully fifty
years more that's an old old story in
you know medical science we've known
about what was wrong with
benzodiazepines for a long time now
popular awareness of the problems with
antidepressants maybe only goes back to
the 1980s but the scientific research is
even
all than that you can hear many lectures
here on YouTube about the history of it
but you know when I look at this woman
so you've used this clip before my
channel but this is really instructive
in showing you what akathisia is what it
is about this that makes life so
unbearable this is a seemingly beautiful
intelligent young woman who took a very
low dose of a very common SSRI
antidepressant she was on a low dose of
lexapro very commonly prescribed and her
life has been totally destroyed and you
know what's worse she has to live with
the awareness that these horrible
physical symptoms can make it impossible
for her to sit down impossible for her
to stand still impossible for her to
play the piano impossible for her to
hold a pen and write for any period of
time impossible for her to sit of
computer and and type these unbelievably
horrible symptoms they're not caused by
damage to her nervous system it's not
like she had a car accident that injured
her neck or her spine or her arms or her
legs no she has to live with the
awareness that this is because of brain
damage this is damage in her brain that
fundamentally impairs how she feels how
she thinks how she's able to perceive
and understand the world it
fundamentally changes who she is
for the worse forever if the symptoms
themselves don't drive you to suicide
the awareness of that it's very likely
to do so what an unbelievably tragic
situation of being and Jordan Peterson
he's had this evidence in front of him
he's had this evidence on his desk and
in his department this has been the talk
of the town this is now 2020 I mean yeah
the last 50 years this has been the
story this has been the debate across
all of these fields you know not just
bio psycho not just not just in the
field of bio psychiatry narrowly defined
but across all of the various forms of
therapy and psychotherapy the rise and
fall of Prozac the great hopes that were
attached to SSRI antidepressant
medication and then the way in which
those hopes were ultimately
that has been the story of the last 50
years look I say again guys I was born
ignorant
I wasn't born knowing any of this stuff
I wasn't born wise and I have a very
clear memory of my teenage years in the
various stages of stupidity and
self-indulgence and ignorance I had to
grow up through like like everyone else
and now I had to struggle to overcome my
own lack of sophistication and my own
lack of knowledge about these things but
I mean when I was a member of the
Buddhists religion I look around at
these other people who all had their own
sad stories about how Buddhism had
destroyed their lives and like let's be
clear
Buddhism is less dangerous than taking
Prozac it's less dangerous than SSRI
drugs it's less dangerous than
benzodiazepines and Buddhism if we're
being honest it's less dangerous than
Islam it's less dangerous than a lot of
other religions but nevertheless you
know I was always aware Buddhism was a
faith and a Creed and a set of practices
that destroyed some people's lives and a
lot of the specialist I know a guy right
now who's a PhD holding professor of
Buddhism in London England and if he's
honest with you he can talk about the
way in which Buddhism destroyed his life
for decades he was involved with a
horrible cult group in England really
sad story and however negative it
affected that I had on his life I mean
at least he got a PhD out of it and a
well-paying career out of it terrible
terrible things happen to people's lives
because they're both going to put us um
and I was always really sensed of that
fact and really interested in it and
really engaged as a reformer where I was
looking to the future of the religion
and wondering how can we solve these
problems how can we do better how can we
make sure that the future is nothing
like the past I don't look back at what
Buddhism was even in the 1960s and they
go we should go back to that know
Buddhism the 1960s is an unbelievable
scam a bunch of horrible cult groups
ripping off 20 people I don't look at
what Buddhism was in the 1860s or the
1760s I don't look back at Buddhism a
thousand years ago and think we should
get back to that I'm willing to look at
what's wrong in the real
in every period by the way in case you
didn't know historically included like
slavery nobody wants to talk about that
there were things that were really
obviously wrong with Buddhism as a
religion before you know the Beatles got
involved in the sixties but what struck
me was that these people they just
didn't care until it happened to them
and even when it did happen to them they
only remained sympathetically engaged
with their own personal tragedy and I
had to ask how can you be so selfish
it's like looking at Jordan Peterson I'm
wondering how is it that you only care
about your own brain damage you don't
care when you're literally recommending
your own clients your own patients your
own university students take these drugs
that cause brain damage that caused
these horrifying side-effects these
drugs that cause a higher rate of
suicide than treatment without the drugs
treating depression just do talk therapy
these drugs have like such a terrifying
list of side effects even just printed
on the label let alone if you do some
research as a specialist with a PhD but
you're in Pearson suppose me how is it
possible but you don't care unless and
until this brain damage happens to you
and then even when it does happen you
remain so selfish that you're narrowly
focused only on your own tragedy that
you have no concern about the future of
your religion of the future of your
community the future of your movement
the you you just fundamentally don't
contend that you fundamentally don't
sympathize with anyone else's suffering
and therefore you don't analyze other
people's suffering you don't learn from
it I mean really people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
you
I don't know